well the AL hospital that he was just
referring to is run by the Anglican
communion a global Christian
organization in a statement the
Episcopal dicese of Jerusalem wrote this
day of reflection was marred by a brutal
attack on Al alaki anglian Hospital in
Gaza during the Israeli air strikes
there but it's not the first such attack
on their health facilities on October
10th the office of the Archbishop said
please keep in your prayers akley
hospital's medical director whose home
was destroyed yesterday today in an
aerial strike against a residential
neighborhood in Gaza and on October 15th
the American Friends of the church wrote
in a distressing incident on the 14th of
October 2023 Aki Arab Hospital's
diagnostic Cancer Treatment Center in
Gaza City was struck by Israeli rocket
fire specifically impacting the
ultrasound and mamography
Wards well we can now speak to Maran
galani he's the director general of the
Palestine red Cresent society and is
currently in Egypt coordinating Aid
efforts to Gaza as the bombardment
continues he joins me now from Cairo sir
thank you for your time with us here on
Al jazer let me start by asking you
about what we've just heard in the last
few hours from US President Joe Biden he
says that Israel has agreed to let Aid
into Gaza and I quote as soon as
possible what do you know about this
agreement is it going to
happen well nobody knows there has been
for the last few days actually a lot of
rumors that that
the aid will come in from Egypt but also
through Israel into the southern
Crossing border uh entry point we have
actually prepared together with the
international Committee of the Red Cross
relief supplies to go from the West Bank
into uh through Israel into Gaza if that
materialized of course nothing of this
has materialized uh this uh morning
today we we have met uh with Mr Griffith
at at the Egyptian red crescent we are
coordinating together with the Egyptian
red Cent and with a number of of un
agencies who were with Mr Griff we did
not there there are preparations yes we
are getting ready so that whenever this
border crossing opens we will be using
this opportunity to get critical relief
for the people inside Gaza especially
for the patients the hospitals and the
people at large because there is no
water there's no food no fuel and these
are running out so critically to the
point I think if there if there is no
Aid coming in in the next 24 hours I
think we are going to see a real more
even of of a of a of a more death more
misery and it's going to be a horrible
horrible situation on top of what we
have already SE as you've just said
there that the needs are of an enormous
magnitude is an agreement likely to
allow for the scale of the aid operation
needed there's been plenty of talk of
rougher border crossing but this is
presumably going to require the opening
of another border crossing Beyond
raer look if I want to be frank and
honest and and I'm not I don't think I'm
I'm I'm uh sort of saying any any
secrets but these discussions are
talking about a a a a
camouflage a a an opening of a certain
number of hours limited with a lot of
conditions that can
barely provide fuel for the hospitals
and Medicine there will not be a real
relief coming in if that's what they're
talking
about they're talking about maybe 10 to
20 trucks wow in total and that that is
that is that is in my opinion it is just
a camouflage it is to provide for those
who are supporting the war for those who
are beating the drums of War to say here
we have we have allowed and and
pressured in order to have some Aid
coming in the second point which I have
been emphasizing is Israel is the
occupying power it is responsible for
the the safety and the protection of the
saan population it can at any time
get Aid into Gaza they can check it they
can make sure it is it is it is Aid it
is food it is water and nobody can stop
them it is there we have our trucks
ready from the West Bank a lot of other
organization will be ready to bring in
stuff through Israel into the southern
entry point but that's not the point the
point I think is as we have we have
heard from the Minister of Defense
himself is actually a collective
punishment and it is to start and
pressure the people inside G Gaza it is
it is a punishment of the whole people
of Gaza you mentioned there that
negotiations have been ostensibly
continuing well during that time that
those have been taking place we've seen
ambulances hospitals refugee camps as
we've been hearing all hit how will you
protect your Aid workers who who are
doing the
distribution th this this is this is a
this is a very important question
question and and it is quite
honestly Israelis are not interested in
protecting hospitals or medical missions
look for the past few days we have been
receiving daily threats from the
military authorities our Hospital
directors every day they get text
messages and they get phone calls
telling them get out or you are
responsible for whatever is going to
happen to the people inside Gaza we're
telling them we are Sheltering five
6,000 people in our
hospital we I have to verify this but I
was told on the on the eve of the
bombing of alah hospital just after
that our colleagues in Gaza one of my
colleagues in Gaza there was a message
coming from the the military coordinator
as they call him to our Hospital saying
leave leave the hospital or you will be
responsible for the people who are going
to die so I don't think that and we of
course we have lost quite a number of of
medical personnel in Gaza but also in
the West Bank with direct targeting of
those paramedics and
ambulances so all this talk that that
Israel is really concerned Israel makes
sure that it protects and doesn't Target
the medical facilities and medical
personnel is not backed by any evidence
on the contrary we we are we have been
documenting for years but this last year
we have been documenting incident after
incident where our colleagues are
deliberately targeted intimidated and
and so and threatened as as in the case
with our hospital so I I want to ask you
a little bit about something you you
just mentioned earlier you talked about
Israeli checks on the aid and that
you're very open to all of all of your
trucks being being investigated or or um
checked by the Israeli military now the
US has been very clear they've said that
Aid will only flow if Hamas doesn't
receive any of it now given the nature
of Hamas as I was discussing with an
earlier guest as a social movement as
well as the very densely populated
nature of the Gaza Strip is that
realistic when it comes to Aid
distribution is there a plan for
that look this is the irony
international law
says you get Aid to the civilian
population you don't ask
what religion they are what political
color they are people who are in need
they are civilians they are not arms
beers you get Aid to them based on needs
not because not based on their political
convictions not based on on on whatever
other qualifications and it is really
surprising that this is coming from the
US because international law is very
clear International humanitarian law is
very clear you cannot starve a
population you cannot use Aid or food
and water as an instrument of War for
any political or military ends and it
seems to me that they are using this Aid
aspect to
instrumentalize the aid and the
humanitarian assistance to in in order
to fulfill or to support the the
military goals and and this is this is
ridiculous this is this is a violation
of internal law and none of the
international humanitarian organization
of course and our humanit local
humanitarian organization such as the
red Cresent we're not going to do that
we will be there we provide aid for
civilians and I I I stress that the
civilians who need that Aid the wounded
and the sick that's who we were work
with we do not provide aid for any
political party or any other group our
Aid goes to those who need it from the
civilian population who are in a real
dire situation Maran jalani there the
director general of the Palestine red
cresant Society speaking to us live from
Cairo sir thank you so much for joining
us here on Al jaer at such a busy busy
time for you we really wish you and your
organization all the best with the work
that you're
doing thank you